178 massa web3 page (#182)
massalabs/docs: docs/build/massa-web3/dapp-usage-massa-web3.mdx

---
id: dapp-usage-massa-web3
title: dApp Usage
---

Here are some examples of how to use the Massa Web3 API for dApp development.

## Calling a smart contract

Full code of the Age dApp is available [here](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/tree/main/age).

> Here is the [age smart contract](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/blob/main/age/contracts/assembly/contracts/main.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [age smart contract](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/blob/main/age/contracts/assembly/contracts/main.ts) stores the name and age of persons.
```

> It allows you to store and read an age value for a given person name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We want our frontend to call the smart contract and change the age value associated to Alice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This snippets shows how to call the smart contract and change the age value of Alice.
```

> After creating a react app with `npx create-react-app helloworld` and setting up the Massa Web3 API as described in the

Reviewer: I don't think it's worth mentioning how to create a react project.

[installation](/docs/build/massa-web3#installation) section, we can call the smart contract method `changeAge` like this:

```typescript
let args = new Args().addString(inputName).addU32(newAge);
let opId = await client.smartContracts().callSmartContract({
  targetAddress: CONTRACT_ADDRESS,
  functionName: "changeAge",
  parameter: args.serialize(),
  maxGas: BigInt(1000000),
  coins: BigInt(0),
  fee: BigInt(0),
});
```
[Github redirection](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/blob/age/react/src/App.tsx#L42)

Since that method requires a string and an integer as parameters, we need to serialize them first. The `Args` class 
provides a convenient way to do that. You can learn more about Args via the [source code](https://github.com/massalabs/web3-utils/blob/main/src/arguments.ts#L42)
and its usage with the [examples](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/).

If the call is successful, we get an operation id back, you can then use it to check the status of the operation with the [explorer](https://buildnet.massa.net/#explorer)

## Reading a smart contract value

> We now want to read the new age value we just set to display it in our frontend. You can directly read smart contract datastore values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can directly read smart contract datastore values
```

 with the `readSmartContractData` method, which does not require any gas or fee:

```typescript
      const res = await client.smartContracts().readSmartContract({
        maxGas: BigInt(1000000),
        targetAddress: CONTRACT_ADDRESS,
        targetFunction: "getAge",
        parameter: new Args().addString(inputName).serialize(),
      });
    
    const age = res.returnValue;
```

:::info

> Since the `getAge` method won't change the state of the smart contract, we don't need to use a client with an account linked to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the `getAge` method doesn't change the state of the smart contract, we don't need to use a client with an account linked to it.
```
